Populating maintenance and prereqs guide (#8)
CSPI-QE/ocp-ci-docs: docs/Onboarding/Prerequisites_Guide.md

# (WIP) OpenShift CI Scenario Prerequisites Guide<!-- omit from toc -->

## Table of Contents<!-- omit from toc -->
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Prerequisites at a Glance](#prerequisites-at-a-glance)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Upstream Considerations](#upstream-considerations)
  - [1. Public GitHub repositories](#1-public-github-repositories)
  - [2. Private GitHub repositories](#2-private-github-repositories)
- [GitHub Org Requirements](#github-org-requirements)
- [GitHub User Readiness](#github-user-readiness)
- [Containerized Product Deployment](#containerized-product-deployment)
- [Containerized Tests](#containerized-tests)
- [Resolve Internal Dependencies](#resolve-internal-dependencies)
- [Valid Test Output](#valid-test-output)
- [Documented Tests](#documented-tests)

## Overview
This doc is meant to be used by Product QE teams to prepare themselves and their testing repositories to run within OpenShift CI.

You will be working through and updating the following information in the prerequisite Jira ticket that you will be assigned when starting this prerequisite process.

> >Please reach on the Slack channel [#forum-qe-cspi-ocp-ci](https://coreos.slack.com/archives/C047Y0DPEJU) to notify us that you want to start the prerequisite process so that we can get you started with a prerequisite ticket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Please reach out to us on the Slack channel [#forum-qe-cspi-ocp-ci](https://coreos.slack.com/archives/C047Y0DPEJU) to let us know that you want to start the prerequisite process so that we can get you started with a prerequisite ticket.
```

Author: fixing in next commit

2. Upstream Considerations
3. GitHub Org Requirements
4. GitHub User Readiness
5. Containerized Product Deployment
6. Containerized Tests
7. Resolve Internal Dependencies
8. Valid Test Output
9. Documented Tests

## Resources
- Identify engineers that are assigned to work on & hold shared responsibility for product onboarding, test execution and ongoing scenario maintenance. See the [Scenario Maintenance Policy](../Policy/Maintenance/Scenario_Maintenance_Policy.md) and this [RACI Chart](RACI_Chart.md) to understand the roles & responsibilities for this onboarding.

## Upstream Considerations
Running in OpenShift CI is by default upstream and open to the public. All generated output and artifacts will be made public when run as a prow job. This means that the following MUST be true about your layered product deployment and test automation
- No exposed secrets in the console output of any deployment, config, setup, or test automation.
- No exposed secrets in an XML generated by a test.
- No exposed secrets in any artifact generated from product deployment or product testing.

There are two paths for onboarding your layered product scenario into OpenShift CI that you can take

> ### 1. Public GitHub repositories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1. Public GitHub repositories (preferred)
```
I assume we prefer this method, but the other method isn't really much more work, so this can be ignored if you don't agree.

Author: I agree with putting preferred here it will at least get teams thinking about upstream first testing if they don't already do it. Also this model no need for mirroring making it less prone to failures, so I will make this change.

- Product install configuration (anything that needs to be done post operator install) executed within a container (maintained by the product QE team in upstream repo or reachable registry).
- Identify all environment variables and secrets needed for install.

See the [Container Creation Guide](../OCP_CI_Tutorials/Containers/Container_Creation_Guide.md) for general guidance when creating your layered product deployment image(s).

## Containerized Tests
- Product test environment setup executed within a container image (maintained by product QE team in test repo or reachable registry).
- A script or command that can be run against the test container to trigger and generate an XML for the tests.
- Identified all environment variables and secrets needed for testing.

See the [Container Creation Guide](../OCP_CI_Tutorials/Containers/Container_Creation_Guide.md) for general guidance when creating your scenarios test image(s).

## Resolve Internal Dependencies
- Confirmation that the containerized deployment and testing can be run outside of the company firewall and doesn't rely on internal dependencies.

## Valid Test Output

> - Produce J-unit XMLs in a valid format for each test that is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Produce JUnit XMLs in a valid format for each test that is executed.
```

Reviewer 2: I have used "XUnit" in some of my documentation. We should be consistent with which one we mention. If we'd rather us "JUnit", I can do a find and replace.

Author: fixing in next commit

Author: Thanks for pointing this out Caleb. My understanding is that we should be focusing on the JUnit XML schema. For what reason I'm not 100% sure on.
- It seems to have a broader set of tools that integrate/support it, maybe that's why.

I can do a search replace for Xunit and update this everyone in this PR if you agree.

Reviewer 2: That sounds good to me as long as we are consistent in the documentation!

  - This will be needed for reporting. 

See [Report Guide](../OCP_CI_Tutorials/Scenarios/Reporting_Guide.md) for more information.

## Documented Tests

> - Helpful documentation for tests that are being run that can be linked to in the scenarios README.md

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Helpful documentation for tests that are being run that can be linked to in the [scenarios README.md](../Policy/Documentation/Scenario_Documentation_Policy.md)
```

Author: fixing in next commit.
